React i18n library ADR (#364)
BBC-archive/psammead: documentation/architecture-decision-records/ADR0001-i18n_library.md

Licensing: BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License granted by Alibaba. License page info.

---

3. `fbt`

Created by facebook.

Features:
* Organizing your source text for translation
* Composing grammatically correct translatable UI
* Eliminating verbose boilerplate for generating UI

FBT works by transforming your `<fbt>` and `fbt(...)` constructs via Babel plugins. These plugins serve to extract strings from source and lookup translate payloads generated at build-time. FBT creates tables of all possible variations for the given fbt phrase and accesses this at runtime.

Developer Experience:
* Confusing syntax
* Not many resources found, rather than the docs which are not very clear
* https://facebookincubator.github.io/fbt/docs/api_intro
* https://twitter.com/fbopensource/status/1080883562293878784

Support: 18 issues - 1 bug. Low activity in community

Licensing: FBT is MIT licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

---

## Decision Outcome

> There was a clear preference among developers for option 1. `react-intl` as it is the most straight-forward and fully-supported option, providing the best developer experience out of all three. It was also the easiest to integrate into Psammead, as can be seen here: https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/2019-02-21-Component-Library-Meeting-i18n--AZgQeBdv~qXuQnL9jK5rcz4XAg-hSXxc23xnF6U7xnEkXwPc

Reviewer: Can we also write an option for rolling our own please? 

Devils advocate, writing a function to do
```
<FormattedMessage
    defaultMessage={`Hello {name}, you have {unreadCount, number}`}
    values={{name: <b>{name}</b>, unreadCount}}
/>
```
*Could* be not that tricky and might save us 10kb on the client for SPA

Author: So is this something that we're going to seriously consider and have meetings to discuss or is this just to include in the document? I would argue that if we do have the intention of rolling out our own i18n library, then we should take into account our looming deadline.

Reviewer: We should consider all possible options in an ADR, Theres a good chance someone can come to this document in 4 months time and go "why didnt they just make their own? would have been simple" How you consider it is up to you, but the document should say why you did/didnt go for it

Author: ADR amended 👍

# Adopt react-intl as i18n library
## ADR-0001

> * Status: proposed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Status: Proposed
```

* Deciders:
  * Articles Team
  * WS Team
* Date: 2019-03-18

## Context and Problem Statement

> Psammead components need a stardardised approach to localisation, including date and time formatting and string translation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Psammead components need a standardised approach to localisation, including date and time formatting and string translation.
```

## Decision Drivers

* Ease of adoption
* Documentation, community and online resources
* Maintainability
* Popularity / Number of Backers

## Considered Options

> 1. `react-intl`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [react-intl](https://github.com/yahoo/react-intl)
```

> Created and maintained by yahoo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Created and maintained by Yahoo.
```

This library provides React components and an API to format dates, numbers, and strings, including pluralization and handling translations.

> It uses and builds on the Internationalization API built-in to JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It uses and builds on the [Internationalization API built-in to JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl).
```

Features:
* Display numbers with separators.
* Display dates and times correctly.
* Display dates relative to "now".

> * Pluralize labels in strings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Pluralize labels in strings.
```

* Support for 150+ languages.
* Runs in the browser and Node.js.

Developer Experience:

The documentation is good https://github.com/yahoo/react-intl/wiki

Support: 206 issues - 1 bug

Licensing: Free to use under the Yahoo Inc. BSD license. See the LICENSE file for license text and copyright information.

Examples:
https://www.codeandweb.com/babeledit/tutorials/how-to-translate-your-react-app-with-react-intl
https://medium.freecodecamp.org/internationalization-in-react-7264738274a0

---

> 1. `react-intl-native`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. `react-intl-universal`
```

> 1. `react-intl-native`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. `react-intl-universal`
```

Wrong library name

Reviewer 5: It should be 2. instead of 1.

> 1. `react-intl-universal`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. `react-intl-universal`
```

> 2. `react-intl-universal`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [react-intl-universal](https://github.com/alibaba/react-intl-universal)
```

Created and maintained by Alibaba.

> It is an improvement of `react intl` in that it adds functionality for supporting translations in Vanilla JS. React-intl only does this in React Components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is an improvement of `react intl` in that it adds functionality for supporting translations in Vanilla JS. `react-intl` only does this in React Components.
```

Features:
* It can do what we want i.e format numbers, times and dates

> * Can run in both the browser and Node js so we will be covered when we finally work on * ding SPA support )

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Can run in both the browser and Node js so we will be covered when we finally work on adding SPA support
```

> * Can run in both the browser and Node js so we will be covered when we finally work on adding SPA support )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Can run both in the browser and in NodeJS so we will be covered when we finally work on adding SPA support
```

* Supports fetching of config files from a remote source e.g S3

> * Seems like it was built for a specific reason; supporting translations in Vanilla JS. As * ’ll be using React components, I don’t think we have to worry about this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Seems like it was built for a specific reason; supporting translations in Vanilla JS. As we’ll be using React components, I don’t think we have to worry about this.
```

> * Seems like it was built for a specific reason; supporting translations in Vanilla JS. As we’ll be using React components, I don’t think we have to worry about this.

Reviewer 2: > As we’ll be using React components, I don’t think we have to worry about this.

This sentence reads oddly - as if it's a consequence of the previous sentence. I think what you're getting at is this:

```suggestion
* Seems like it was built for a specific reason; supporting translations in Vanilla JS. This doesn't apply to us, as we’ll be using React components, but it doesn't prevent us from using it.
```

Support:
* Quick responses on both issues and Pull requests
* 14 issues, 6 PRs

> * Developer experience:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Developer experience:
```

* Some parts of the docs aren’t grammatically correct. One will notice the errors but it’s not bad enough that one won’t be able to understand the docs.
* Noticed that there are several issues that are asking for new features that are available on react-intl but not on react-intl-universal. Seems like they aren’t actively working on new features at the moment. If the current version suits our needs, we won’t have to worry about this.

> Licensing: BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License granted by Alibaba. License page info.

Reviewer 2: Where is the license page info link?

Reviewer 3: Link added

---

> 3. `fbt`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. [fbt](https://github.com/facebookincubator/fbt)
```

> Created by facebook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Created by Facebook.
```

Features:
* Organizing your source text for translation
* Composing grammatically correct translatable UI
* Eliminating verbose boilerplate for generating UI

FBT works by transforming your `<fbt>` and `fbt(...)` constructs via Babel plugins. These plugins serve to extract strings from source and lookup translate payloads generated at build-time. FBT creates tables of all possible variations for the given fbt phrase and accesses this at runtime.

> Developer Experience:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Developer experience:

```

(Formatting for consistency)

* Confusing syntax

> * Not many resources found, rather than the docs which are not very clear

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Not many resources found, other than the docs which are not very clear
```

* https://facebookincubator.github.io/fbt/docs/api_intro

> * https://twitter.com/fbopensource/status/1080883562293878784

Reviewer 2: Linking to this tweet doesn't feel very appropriate

Reviewer 3: Removed

Support: 18 issues - 1 bug. Low activity in community

Licensing: FBT is MIT licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

4. Roll your own library

An i18n library developed internally.

Pros: custom-built to fit our needs
Cons: More developer resources needed to deliver an i18n library with the required feature set in time.

---

## Decision Outcome

> There was a clear preference among developers for option 1. `react-intl` as it is the most straight-forward and fully-supported option, providing the best developer experience out of all three. It was also the easiest to integrate into Psammead, as can be seen here: https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/2019-02-21-Component-Library-Meeting-i18n--AZgQeBdv~qXuQnL9jK5rcz4XAg-hSXxc23xnF6U7xnEkXwPc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There was a clear preference among developers for option 1. `react-intl` as it is the most straight-forward and fully-supported option, providing the best developer experience out of all three. It was also the easiest to integrate into Psammead (according to our [component library meeting notes](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/2019-02-21-Component-Library-Meeting-i18n--AZgQeBdv~qXuQnL9jK5rcz4XAg-hSXxc23xnF6U7xnEkXwPc)).
```

Size:

Bundle Size
75.4 kB Minified
24.7 kB Minified + GZipped

https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=react-intl-universal@1.15.5

Licensing: BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License granted by Alibaba. [License page info.](https://github.com/alibaba/react-intl-universal/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

---

3. [fbt](https://github.com/facebookincubator/fbt)

Created by Facebook.

Features:
* Organizing your source text for translation
* Composing grammatically correct translatable UI
* Eliminating verbose boilerplate for generating UI

FBT works by transforming your `<fbt>` and `fbt(...)` constructs via Babel plugins. These plugins serve to extract strings from source and lookup translate payloads generated at build-time. FBT creates tables of all possible variations for the given fbt phrase and accesses this at runtime.

Developer experience:

* Confusing syntax
* Not many resources found, other than the docs which are not very clear
* https://facebookincubator.github.io/fbt/docs/api_intro

> Support: 18 issues - 1 bug. Low activity in community

Reviewer: no Bundle Size?

Reviewer 4: > Bundlephobia links added for react-intl and react-intl-universal. fbt is not installable by npm so that was skipped, but it was the worst in terms of documentation & support anyway.

^^

Reviewer 2: True: https://github.com/facebookincubator/fbt/issues/34

For completion we should try installing it as per the fbt README just so that the record says it adds xMB, but it sounds like the decision has already been made 👍

Licensing: FBT is MIT licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

> 

Reviewer: Needs a `---` line break

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
---
```

4. Roll your own library

An i18n library developed internally.

Pros: custom-built to fit our needs
Cons: More developer resources needed to deliver an i18n library with the required feature set in time.

---

## Decision Outcome

> There was a clear preference among developers for option 1. `react-intl` as it is the most straight-forward and fully-supported option, providing the best developer experience out of all three. It was also the easiest to integrate into Psammead (according to our [component library meeting notes](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/2019-02-21-Component-Library-Meeting-i18n--AZgQeBdv~qXuQnL9jK5rcz4XAg-hSXxc23xnF6U7xnEkXwPc)).

Reviewer: This document isnt public, can you please make it public or summarise the point about `the easiest to integrate` please

Size:

Bundle Size
75.4 kB Minified
24.7 kB Minified + GZipped

https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=react-intl-universal@1.15.5

Licensing: BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License granted by Alibaba. [License page info.](https://github.com/alibaba/react-intl-universal/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

---

3. [fbt](https://github.com/facebookincubator/fbt)

Created by Facebook.

Features:
* Organizing your source text for translation
* Composing grammatically correct translatable UI
* Eliminating verbose boilerplate for generating UI

FBT works by transforming your `<fbt>` and `fbt(...)` constructs via Babel plugins. These plugins serve to extract strings from source and lookup translate payloads generated at build-time. FBT creates tables of all possible variations for the given fbt phrase and accesses this at runtime.

Developer experience:

* Confusing syntax
* Not many resources found, other than the docs which are not very clear
* https://facebookincubator.github.io/fbt/docs/api_intro

Support: 18 issues - 1 bug. Low activity in community

> Licensing: FBT is MIT licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

Reviewer: Its currently a title due to being over a break

```suggestion
Licensing: FBT is MIT licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

```

  margin: 0;
  padding: ${GEL_SPACING_QUAD} 0 ${GEL_SPACING_DBL} 0;
  ${GEL_CANON};
`;

export const HeadlineIntl = () => {
  return (
    <IntlProvider
      defaultLocale="en"
      locale={locale}
      messages={messages[locale]}
    >
      <Headline>
        <FormattedMessage id="headline" />
      </Headline>
    </IntlProvider>
  );
};
```

React Intl uses the provider pattern to scope an i18n context to a tree of components. This allows configuration like the current locale to be provided at the root of a component tree and made available to all the child components as well.

The `Headline`(psammead) component wraps the `<FormattedMessage>` component of `react-intl` which is used for formatting string messages.

We have to load the locale data for languages we want to support. In this example, we have imported English and Spanish. This data is provided by `react-intl` and specifies the date, time, number and formats for each language. The locale data is added by calling `addLocaleData()`.

The translations of our custom text messages will be stored for each language in a separate config file.

- ###### translations/en.json
```javascript
{

>   "headline": "This is a heading"

Reviewer: Headline is a bad example, I dont see any case in which a headline would use a translation

Reviewer 3: There aren't many things in psammead currently which would need a translation like this. Is there a case where we might use the heading component outside of an article? It's mostly just a quick example to show how it works. We can amend it with better examples once we have other components.

Size:

Bundle Size
47.6 kB Minified
13kB Minified + GZipped

https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=react-intl@2.8.0

Examples:
https://www.codeandweb.com/babeledit/tutorials/how-to-translate-your-react-app-with-react-intl
https://medium.freecodecamp.org/internationalization-in-react-7264738274a0

---

2. [react-intl-universal](https://github.com/alibaba/react-intl-universal)

Created and maintained by Alibaba.

It is an improvement of `react intl` in that it adds functionality for supporting translations in Vanilla JS. `react-intl` only does this in React Components.

Features:
* It can do what we want i.e format numbers, times and dates
* Can run both in the browser and in NodeJS so we will be covered when we finally work on adding SPA support
* Supports fetching of config files from a remote source e.g S3
* Seems like it was built for a specific reason; supporting translations in Vanilla JS. This doesn't apply to us, as we’ll be using React components, but it doesn't prevent us from using it.

Support:
* Quick responses on both issues and Pull requests
* 14 issues, 6 PRs

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Developer experience:
* Some parts of the docs aren’t grammatically correct. One will notice the errors but it’s not bad enough that one won’t be able to understand the docs.
* Noticed that there are several issues that are asking for new features that are available on react-intl but not on react-intl-universal. Seems like they aren’t actively working on new features at the moment. If the current version suits our needs, we won’t have to worry about this.

Size:

> Bundle Size

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 75.4 kB Minified

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 75.4 kB Minified
```

> 24.7 kB Minified + GZipped

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 24.7 kB Minified + GZipped
```

Won't display on separate lines in markdown unless we explicitly add `-` or `*` or `\n`

> https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=react-intl-universal@1.15.5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Source: [bundlephobia](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=react-intl-universal@1.15.5)
```

> Licensing: BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License granted by Alibaba. [License page info.](https://github.com/alibaba/react-intl-universal/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Licensing: BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License granted by Alibaba. [License page info](https://github.com/alibaba/react-intl-universal/blob/master/LICENSE.md).
```

* Not many resources found, other than the docs which are not very clear
* https://facebookincubator.github.io/fbt/docs/api_intro

Support: 18 issues - 1 bug. Low activity in community

Licensing: FBT is MIT licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

---
4. Roll your own library

An i18n library developed internally.

Pros: custom-built to fit our needs
Cons: More developer resources needed to deliver an i18n library with the required feature set in time.

---

## Decision Outcome

There was a clear preference among developers for option 1, `react-intl`, as it is the most straight-forward and fully-supported option, providing the best developer experience out of all three. 

It was also the easiest to integrate into Psammead. The following is an example of using it with the Headline component:

```javascript
import { addLocaleData, IntlProvider } from 'react-intl'; 
import locale_en from 'react-intl/locale-data/en'; 
import locale_es from 'react-intl/locale-data/es'; 
import messages from './translations.js'; 
import { FormattedMessage } from 'react-intl'; 

addLocaleData([...locale_en, ...locale_es]);

const locale = 
  (navigator.languages && navigator.languages[0]) || 

>   navigator.langauge ||

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  navigator.language ||
```

  navigator.userLanguage ||
  'en-UK';

export const Headline = styled.h1`
  color: ${C_EBON};
  font-family: ${FF_NEWS_SERIF_MDM};
  margin: 0;
  padding: ${GEL_SPACING_QUAD} 0 ${GEL_SPACING_DBL} 0;
  ${GEL_CANON};
`;

export const HeadlineIntl = () => {
  return (
    <IntlProvider
      defaultLocale="en"
      locale={locale}
      messages={messages[locale]}
    >
      <Headline>
        <FormattedMessage id="headline" />
      </Headline>
    </IntlProvider>
  );
};
```

React Intl uses the provider pattern to scope an i18n context to a tree of components. This allows configuration like the current locale to be provided at the root of a component tree and made available to all the child components as well.

> The `Headline`(psammead) component wraps the `<FormattedMessage>` component of `react-intl` which is used for formatting string messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Headline` (Psammead) component wraps the `<FormattedMessage>` component of `react-intl` which is used for formatting string messages.
```

We have to load the locale data for languages we want to support. In this example, we have imported English and Spanish. This data is provided by `react-intl` and specifies the date, time, number and formats for each language. The locale data is added by calling `addLocaleData()`.

The translations of our custom text messages will be stored for each language in a separate config file.

> - ###### translations/en.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**translations/en.json**:
```

(The Accessibility Champion in me hates that we've gone from the markdown equivalent of `h2` to `h6` with no headings in between! 😁 )

```javascript
{
  "headline": "This is a heading"
}
```

> - ###### translations/es.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**translations/es.json**:
```
